Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I want to provide a solution to our previous challenge which was implementing the iterator
design pattern for a college environment mean that we had different subjects art subjects versus science
subjects.
So we're gonna name this project are iterator solution and remember that our subjects actually were
stored in different data structures.
One was gonna use I think a linked list and another was gonna use something similar but different.
So here we're gonna name this iterator solution
our first step will be to create the aggregate interface.
So we're gonna name this subject interface.
And remember this aggregate interface all does contain one method which is our create iterator.
So yeah we're gonna say public that's going to return an iterator interface object so we're gonna say
create iterator we haven't created that iterator interface yet.
Our next step is to create the iterator interface.
So now we're gonna say new class it to rate her interface.
And this is going to contain our traversal methods.
So we're gonna have a first text is done and a current item.
This is from the requirements.
So something like this I like lowercase methods.
So let's make sure they're lowercase and this is just going to allow us to traverse different objects.
So first reset to the first element next.
Get the next element is done the end of collection check.
This would be like the has next and current item retrieve the current item.
Now let's create some concrete aggregates remember these are going to just store the data.
The first one is gonna be Art's concrete aggregate.
So this is gonna be implementing our subject interface so it implements subject interface and we're
gonna use an array to store our objects.
So we're gonna have a private member variable for our string all right.
And our constructor is going to populate some dummy data into the array which is going to create a new
subjects array and create a couple of subjects something like this and then we need to implement the
create iterator because that's what we do for this pattern.
So we say public iterator interface create
iterator.
And this is just going to return a new arts iterator which we haven't implemented yet.
And it's gonna take in our data subjects something like that.
OK and then we're going to also create our science aggregate.
So this is gonna be named class science implements subject interface.
And this is going to store things as a linked list.
And I want to populate the linked list items inside the constructor.
So we're gonna have a member variable for a link list.
It's going to be named subjects going to create the new linked list and in the constructor and add some
dummy items we then need to implement our iterator interface right.
The create iterator I should say the aggregate interface.
So this is going to return a new science iterator which we're gonna have to implement now because we
have to implement some concrete iterator.
So this is our iterator interface and it's gonna return a new science iterator passing in the subjects
which is the data.
So now we're done with our concrete aggregates.
Now we have to implement our concrete iterator.
So in this case we want to create both the arts iterator and a subject iterator.
So we're gonna say.
Class.
Arts iterator implements R iterator interface.
And this is going to have member variables for our subjects
which is an array
stored in array.
And our current position
and our constructor is going to set the subjects that were passed into it and also set our current position
which would be 0 to access.
That's the El index into the array.
Our first method is gonna just reset.
Remember it's going to reset to the first position but so that's pretty easily implemented.
You can just set the current position to 0.
So something like that position equals zero.
Next month we have to implement is our next method.
Here we go.
And this is just going to return the next item and it's gonna return a String.
So we're just gonna say return subjects array and then our current position is done method is going
to tell us whether or not there anymore elements to iterate through so here we can just check if it's
bigger than the length so is done.
If the position is greater than equal to the subjects that length then we don't have any more data read
through in our current item just returns the spot in the array where we're currently at which is subjects
position.
OK so pretty straightforward for our first iterator are science iterator is going to be named science
that are your source a class science C i.e. B and C iterator implements our iterator interface.
And this is going to have a linked list remember and it's also going to have a current position.
We're going to instantiate or initialize our linked lists in our constructor by assigning what's passed
in and we're also going to set the position to 0 and then many of the methods are gonna be the same.
The first is gonna they're pretty much going to be identical right because we all also we have the same
member variable so we can just copy and paste these four.
And those are gonna be not the same actually because we have a linked list and not an array so we will
have to change those a bit.
First is gonna be the same because that just sets the position to 0 next.
You're not going to be able to use an array you're going to have to use the get method and we're going
to have to position plus plus also something like that using the method R is done is going to return
the position greater than equal to subjects that size not the length
and our current item is going to not use an index that's going to use the get method so get position.
Our last hope will be to create the client.
So we're going to say new Java class client and this is going to have our main method
and we're first going to just display that what we're doing so it's an iterator pattern demo and then
we're gonna create new science and arts subjects.
So we're gonna create new aggregate objects that return subject interfaces.
These are gonna be storing the data.
And remember the constructors actually add some dummy data.
So science subjects arts objects we then need to get our iterator.
So we're going to call on the subbed aggregate objects to create iterator method and that will return
the correct correct iterator either a science iterator or a arts iterator
something like this
and we had the method names with lower cases like that.
Now we can just go through iterate through the subjects and display our data we're gonna write a little
helper method that uses the iterator to display our data.
We're gonna name that print I'm going to put it above the main.
So it's gonna be a static void print.
It's gonna take an iterator interface
and it's gonna go through the elements until it's done.
And just get the next and print out the next.
So now down here it's very easy we can just call print so we'll call print on both operators and in
print out a heading as well.
So we'll do something like this.
Call our print method which should be lower case.
Just my coding style don't like upper case methods use Campbell case mainly.
So now let's see if we can Bill if I made any mistakes build and run this and you'll see how the integrators
are going through the different aggregate objects and the aggregate objects are stored differently.
So we're gonna say build
and we have an error.
We have to make sure that our create iterator is need to be lowercase.
Now we're good to go so we can run our client
and we'll see that we're able to iterate through the aggregate objects or science objects and our art
subjects or science subjects are stored in the right.
We used an iterator to traverse time our art subjects were stored in the link list and that's how you
implement the iterator design pattern solution to our previous challenge.
Thank you.